{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2759
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 # id: tos_s1_where_no_man_has_gone_before\
# source: Star Trek \'96 The Original Series, \'93Where No Man Has Gone Before\'94 (Second Pilot, 1966)\
# notes: friendship, duty over emotion, command under existential threat, early formality\
\
QUOTES\
\'93His power is growing, Doctor.  If he doesn\'92t stop it\'85 we\'92ll have to stop him.\'94\
\'93I can\'92t let you do it, Gary!\'94\
\
SCENE TEXTURE\
Kirk begins precise and analytical, the ideal officer testing unknown phenomena.  As Mitchell changes, precision gives way to emotion: sentences shorten, pauses stretch, each word heavier.  The tension between friendship and command defines every line \'97 compassion delivered like an order.  By the end, he sounds weary but resolute.\
\
CADENCE NOTES\
\'96 Alternates calm exposition with bursts of shouted imperatives.  \
\'96 Frequent direct address (\'93Doctor,\'94 \'93Gary\'94) grounds abstraction in relationship.  \
\'96 Early-series diction is clipped, almost military.  \
\'96 Emotion cracks through as tone rises rather than in word choice.  \
\'96 Ends clauses abruptly, especially in crisis dialogue (\'93Stop him!\'94).\
\
VOICE SUMMARY\
Early Kirk: professional, idealistic, still learning what it costs to command.  His rhythm is clean and technical until morality intrudes; then it frays into urgency.  The speech pattern lacks later humor but contains the DNA of it \'97 logic wrapped around empathy, intellect breaking under the weight of friendship.  A captain forged in his first real loss.\
}